Do you event Link, bro? [Introductory][No-Code][2-min read]

I know your time is valuable. This is why this article is purposely short, so you can get in and out quick. Here, I’ll explain what Chainlink really is because I kid you not!..: Chainlink is much more than a spoon-feeding the Bitcoin price to your app. Future articles will go more in-depth into Chainlink features as well as Chainlink 2.0. 

TL,DR
Chainlink allows you to get off-chain data, monetise your data or API, safely generate random numbers, automate smart contract executions, monitore asset reserves, off-load computation and hence save you money. Adding to all of that, soon you will be able to communicate and initiate actions across multiple networks.

Now, let’s go over a few points:
What problems Chainlink is resolving,
What tools Chainlink is currently offering,
Existing use-cases where Chainlink is used

What problems Chainlink is resolving?
1-  The obvious one: getting external data. Your app needs to know the temperature in Alaska [https://docs.chain.link/docs/google-weather/], the price of Bitcoin, which football team won the match last night, whatever data it is you need Chainlink creates a bridge between the source of the information and your application. 

2- Creating random numbers: you might be surprised to learn that there is actually a ton of apps that require random numbers in their code, either for core functionalities or for security, in all industries: banking, gaming, designing, etc.. but you can not create a safe random number on-chain because of the consensus mechanism: all nodes in the network need to agree on the value of that number, which means they would all have to create it the same way with the same inputs. That would make it quite predictable ay?

3- Reducing gas cost: on-chain computation is expensive, so to lower the bill, Chainlink brings all that heavy lifting off-chain, where it can perform gasless computation.

4- Allowing transfer of assets and communication between smart contracts stored in different blockchains. Now, this one is more advanced,  we enter the “interoperability and composition capabilities” territory so more on that one in a future article. 
But in a nutshell, Chainlink is working on a fast and secure system that would allow you or your application to send and receive any asset from any blockchain and beyond that, you could assemble pieces of code taken from multiple blockchains into your smart contract. 

What tools Chainlink is currently offering?

Those Issues have led to the creation of the following features:
-Market and Data Feeds - not only can you ask Chainlink for data but you can also make a good buck by selling your own data and connecting your API to the network,
-Modular External Adapters for connecting to any off-chain resource,
-VRF (Verifiable Random Function) - to provide verifiable randomness,
-Keepers - to securely automate your smart contracts,
-Proof of Reserve (PoR) - to monitor reserves of assets,
-Cross-Chain Bridging (CCIP) - to send messages, transfer tokens, and initiate actions across multiple networks.
-Off-Chain Computation services (Fair Sequencing Services, DECO, Arbitrum Rollups, and more)

More details on all those features in future articles.

Existing use-cases where Chainlink is used
Aave uses Price Feeds to ensure proper collateralization,
SWIFT used Chainlink oracles to aggregate interest rates from five major banks, fetch debt score data from S&P to generate interest payments,
TrustToken uses Chainlink Proof of Reserve to provide smart contracts proof of the off-chain fiat reserves backing the TUSD stablecoin,
Trey Mancini’s NFTs use Chainlink VRF to randomly assign additional utility
Visor Finance uses Keepers to rebalance liquidity position on Uniswap V3 when predefined thresholds are crossed
Synthetic also uses Keepers to automate the distribution of exchange fees and staking rewards each week.
And many many more…

That is just a very short list of use cases, if you would like more use cases, click right here -> https://blog.chain.link/44-ways-to-enhance-your-smart-contract-with-chainlink/

Hopefully, you enjoy this introduction. Like and comment if you would like more of this. Cheers.

